Our modern world was built on fuel.
History has been determined
by who finds, who controls
and who burns the dominant
fuel of the age.
So the past makes sense
when you look at it
wearing fuel-tinted glasses.
And these are not just
a really great fashion accessory
for this year’s Fyre Festival.
They are, in fact, essential
safety equipment for our leaders,
as they seek to shape history.
In the 1970s, for example,
the oil cartel OPEC, led by Saudi Arabia,
tried to cut off the supply
of oil to the United States.
Caused an instant panic,
a recession within months.
Trump was 27 when those lines
of cars snaked around the block.
Putin was 21. Xi was 20.
Our leaders understand, in their bones,
their power comes from fuel.
But now, we're in the midst
of the next great energy transition.
So who will control the future
of clean energy?
Who will be the Saudi Arabia
of this transition?
Well, through fuel-tinted glasses,
the answer seems obvious.
It's whoever controls the copper,
the lithium, the graphite, the cobalt,
the rare earths, the critical
minerals that we need.
But our fuel-tinted glasses are broken,
because this is the first transition
not to another dominant fuel,
but to a technology,
and that changes everything.
Now I've spent a lot of time
thinking about what this means.
Our team is building
one of the largest distributed
renewable energy utilities for Africa.
CrossBoundary Energy uses on-site
solar batteries and wind to bring cheaper,
cleaner and more reliable
power to businesses,
and CrossBoundary Access uses the same
technologies to bring first-time power
to some of the 600 million people
living on this continent without it.
And here is what I have learned
at the silicon face of this transition.
Unlike fuel, technology
is less existential.
It's more circular. It's more fungible,
and it's more abundant.
So I can use one of our projects
to explain how this works.
This is Tolagnaro in Madagascar.
It's a remote town of 55,000 people,
next to a major critical minerals mine.
Power for the mine and the community,
until recently, came from heavy fuel
oil generators on the mine site.
Now, CrossBoundary powers the mine
with a renewable energy microgrid
made up of solar, wind and batteries.
Soon, we hope that we will be able
to phase out the generators altogether.
Now, let me tell you a story.
Imagine two cartels.
One is real, OPEC,
which seeks to control the price of oil.
The other is an imaginary alliance
of the major miners
of copper and lithium today.
Chile, China and Australia.
Now if you want to run a good cartel,
everyone knows you need
to have a great acronym.
And so let’s call it the “pisco sour,
Peking duck, Foster’s” cartel,
or PPF for short.
Now let's imagine that each cartel,
OPEC and PPF, seeks to cut off the supply
of their respective commodity
to the rest of the world.
In Tolagnaro, before
our energy transition,
this would have caused an instant crisis.
Without oil, the lights in the community
go out and the mine shuts down.
But after the transition,
nothing much changes in Tolagnaro.
And that's because in a fuel-based world,
constant supply of fuel is existential.
But in a technology-based world
without a constant supply of lithium,
your old lithium batteries keep working.
You don't need a constant supply
of new copper for your copper wires
to keep conducting electricity.
You do not require
a constant supply of new materials
just to survive.
But technology gets even better than that,
because it is also more circular.
Approximately zero percent of the energy
from oil can be recycled.
You burn it, it's gone.
But we don't burn technology ...
we use it.
And so over 90 percent of renewable
energy technologies can be recycled.
That wind turbine I showed you earlier
is actually a refurbished turbine
shipped to Madagascar from Italy.
And it works buono.
Although it gesticulates
more than our technical team
initially expected.
(Laughter)
By 2050, there could be
so much recycled supply
that demand for new input materials
could actually begin to decrease.
But it gets better than that,
because technology is also more fungible.
Now, I'm not actually
talking about mushrooms here,
but the effect is magic,
because almost every input
into this energy transition
can be substituted
for another abundant material.
Copper can be replaced by aluminium.
Cobalt can be replaced,
in batteries, by iron,
and those substitutions have already
happened when, temporarily, prices spiked.
So even without access
to a specific critical mineral,
the power of fungibility means
that you can continue to grow.
Now, hopefully, you're beginning
to feel somewhat convinced
that demand for new material will be
fundamentally different in this transition
because it is less existential,
more circular, more fungible,
and those things together
mean that it is more flexible.
It is more elastic.
But we do still have a lot
of energy transitioning left to do.
So we do need new supply.
And so here is my final
piece of good news.
The materials that we need
for this energy transition are abundant.
First, we need less stuff.
From now until 2050, we need to extract,
every year, around 230 million tonnes
of end-use materials.
So it sounds like a lot.
But every year, currently, we extract
over eight billion tonnes of coal.
Every year, we extract
five billion tonnes of oil
and three billion tonnes
of natural gas, every single year,
just to fuel our existing energy system.
So that 230 million looks manageable.
Now we are going to need
more of material like copper,
lithium, graphite, cobalt.
But this is the second point
of relative abundance.
We've got plenty of this stuff.
When geologists estimate
the likely resource,
they show that it easily
exceeds our projected demand.
Even rare earths are not rare.
They were called rare because they were
rarely found in their pure form.
They were always found
with another material.
So sure, they're rare,
but they're rare in the same way
that Bert is rare without Ernie.
But is oil very different?
Our identified resource of oil
is actually pretty abundant
relative to demand as well.
And our identified reserves of oil
are held, similarly to critical minerals,
in a very concentrated set of hands.
So what is different?
Well, two things.
One, the resource
that we have identified of oil
is the result of searching for it
intensively for over 100 years.
And we know that oil in general
is quite rare in the Earth's crust.
We know that most critical minerals
are actually geologically abundant
in the Earth's crust,
and we've really only just begun exploring
for many of them at scale.
So it's extremely likely
that if we try, we can diversify.
But second, if we're confronted
with the behavior of a PPF-style cartel,
that angry kangaroo who I think
maybe was a little bit drunk ...
the elasticity of demand gives us the time
and the leverage that we need to break
the cartel or diversify our supply.
Now, there will be short-term
mismatches between supply and demand,
but control really matters
when supply is scarce
and demand is inelastic.
When supply is abundant
and demand is elastic,
control will always be temporary.
Here's one final piece of evidence
that can tie all of this together.
Can you name me a successful
cartel for an energy-transition mineral?
Have you, for instance,
heard of these famous copper cartels,
the Secrétan Copper Syndicate,
the Amalgamated Copper Company,
the Copper Exporters Association,
the Copper Exporters Incorporated
and the not particularly creatively named
International Copper Cartel.
(Laughter)
These are all real cartels,
and they all failed,
because when supply is abundant
and demand is elastic,
a cartel has the lifespan
of your average
"Game of Thrones" character.
(Laughter)
There will not be an OPEC for renewables.
OK, fine.
But won't there be a Saudi Arabia
of manufacturing in this transition?
Well, no, at least not
for the same reasons.
Because manufacturing
is effectively abundant,
your ability to manufacture does not
constrain my ability to manufacture.
It's not zero-sum.
Nobody can stop you
from making solar panels.
Now building, being good at building
and making things creates wealth,
and wealth can lead to power.
But in this transition,
it matters so much less what you have
and so much more what you do.
The great nations of tomorrow
will not be those that focus
on controlling materials
and constraining the growth of others.
The great nations of tomorrow
will be those that focus
on their comparative advantage.
Identify and unlock the resources
that we'll all need.
Invent, build and manufacture
the technology that we'll all need,
and then sell it
at great prices, terrific prices --
(Laughter)
to the rest of the world.
That's what policymakers should focus on,
not annexing another source
of not particularly rare earths.
The leaders we need now are explorers ...
not exploiters.
They are builders, not worriers.
And they are innovators, not conquerors.
So let's take off
those fuel-tinted glasses together.
Who will control the future
of clean energy?
Well, the answer is nobody.
And the answer can be everybody.
Because the future of energy
is not controlled.
It's shared.
It's not extracted, it's built,
and it can belong to all of us.
Thank you.
(Cheers and applause)